docs/logger-mdc-instrumentation.md, before:

# Logger MDC auto-instrumentation

The Mapped Diagnostic Context (MDC) is

> an instrument for distinguishing interleaved log output from different sources.
> &mdash; <cite> [log4j MDC documentation](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/apidocs/org/apache/log4j/MDC.html) </cite>

It contains thread-local contextual information which is later copied to each logging event captured
by a logging library.

The OTel Java agent injects several pieces of information about the current span into each logging
event's MDC copy:

- `trace_id` - the current trace id
  (same as `Span.current().getSpanContext().getTraceId()`);
- `span_id` - the current span id
  (same as `Span.current().getSpanContext().getSpanId()`);
- `trace_flags` - the current trace flags, formatted according to W3C traceflags format
  (same as `Span.current().getSpanContext().getTraceFlags().asHex()`).

Those three pieces of information can be included in log statements produced by the logging library
by specifying them in the pattern/format. Example for Spring Boot configuration (which uses
logback):

```properties
logging.pattern.console = %d{yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss} - %logger{36} - %msg trace_id=%X{trace_id} span_id=%X{span_id} trace_flags=%X{trace_flags} %n
```

This way any services or tools that parse the application logs can correlate traces/spans with log
statements.

## Supported logging libraries

| Library | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Log4j 1 | 1.2+    |
| Log4j 2 | 2.7+    |
| Logback | 1.0+    |

Commit message:

Use `logging.pattern.level` recommended by Spring (#5726)
* Use `logging.pattern.level` recommended by Spring

The Spring Boot documentation recommends using `logging.pattern.level` in a "Tip" section in https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/features.html#features.logging.custom-log-configuration

We should follow this best practice.

* Update docs/logger-mdc-instrumentation.md

Co-authored-by: Mateusz Rzeszutek <mrzeszutek@splunk.com>

Co-authored-by: Mateusz Rzeszutek <mrzeszutek@splunk.com>

docs/logger-mdc-instrumentation.md, after:

# Logger MDC auto-instrumentation

The Mapped Diagnostic Context (MDC) is

> an instrument for distinguishing interleaved log output from different sources.
> &mdash; <cite> [log4j MDC documentation](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/apidocs/org/apache/log4j/MDC.html) </cite>

It contains thread-local contextual information which is later copied to each logging event captured
by a logging library.

The OTel Java agent injects several pieces of information about the current span into each logging
event's MDC copy:

- `trace_id` - the current trace id
  (same as `Span.current().getSpanContext().getTraceId()`);
- `span_id` - the current span id
  (same as `Span.current().getSpanContext().getSpanId()`);
- `trace_flags` - the current trace flags, formatted according to W3C traceflags format
  (same as `Span.current().getSpanContext().getTraceFlags().asHex()`).

Those three pieces of information can be included in log statements produced by the logging library
by specifying them in the pattern/format. 

Tip: for Spring Boot configuration which uses logback, you can add MDC to log lines by overriding only the `logging.pattern.level`:
```properties
logging.pattern.level = trace_id=%mdc{trace_id} span_id=%mdc{span_id} trace_flags=%mdc{trace_flags} %5p
```

This way any services or tools that parse the application logs can correlate traces/spans with log
statements.

## Supported logging libraries

| Library | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Log4j 1 | 1.2+    |
| Log4j 2 | 2.7+    |
| Logback | 1.0+    |
